# Porto - The Beginning of Portugal



Porto, having given its name to port wine and the country itself is the second largest city of Portugal. It is motherhood of [Portugal](https://www.craftlabs.sg/) wine industry. Initially Porto has been constructed as a Roman port. Mentions of crusaders and riches inflow from Portuguese sea colonies have been saved in the past of the city. The city is situated at the Douro river, which is one of the biggest rivers in Europe. Its name derives from the word "gold". This is not only because the river supplying grapevine which was used to make the wide-known wine was the main source of the country's wellness, but also because ships put out to sea by this river in the period of Portuguese inventions.

Porto is an ancient brisk passionate city. It is full of beautiful buildings. The Se Cathedral and many churches built in the XII century impress a lot. The history surrounds you as you visit the castle where Alfonso Enriques was born. Visitors are being accepted with aristocratic hospitality in numerous castles and houses. The coastal region, known as Ribeyra, has many narrow twisting streets with houses, colourful façades and fidget energy of working people. The Sedofeyta church, Klerigosh towel and San-Francisco church are also worth to visit. The Donna Maria Pia bridge built by Gustave Eiffel in 1877 connects Porto with the southern coast of Douro river. Several museums, concert halls, theatres, libraries and book stores are situated in Porto. The Saores Dos Reis museum has been named after Portuguese sculpture of the 19th century. It keeps the collection of modern Portuguese art. The city's life and traditions from earliest till present days are described in the Museum of History and Ethnography.

Starting your journey from Porto, you can take a walk to the Northern Portugal. Villa Nova de Gaia city founded by The king Alfonso the III in 1253 is situated across the river. Its origin and history are connected with the port wine exportation. Port wine takes its taste from brandy, which is added during the fermentation process with the aim to stop it and to save the grape sweet, which is the sign of a good wine. It is a refined expensive wine exported all over the world from Portugal.
